1. Validation rules:

object manager--> Validation rules-->new--> enter the details.

example:
percentage:
100% is 1.00
error message is mentioned(field level)

note: Pre-existing values are not affected until the changes are made to the record.


2. Related lists(related objects) for records:

Related lists can be edited using the page layouts.
Customizations like buttons related to related lists can be added based on the requirement.
Parent-child relations exist not the other way.
In the parent object, the master-detail relationship doesn't exist. 
In the child object, the master-detail relation exists for the related lists.

3. Record Page Settings:

Setup-->User Interface--> Record Page settings.

Record page view:
group view(details and related are under selection and the activity is displayed as an isolated tab) and full view(details, related and activities are classified and individually selected).
Based on the user preference any view can be selected.

Activity view:

Activity timeline(the history of crud operations performed in the activity is displayed) and related lists( only the related objects and the notes are displayed on a single page with options to select the related objects).

Enhanced Related lists and the List view Action:

Enhanced Related lists: up to 10 colours at once, the text is wrapped or truncated.

note: Any changes made can be assigned as org defaults, app defaults(overrides the org default), app, record and profile defaults (overrides the app default).

List view Action bar: allows to select of multiple records at a time.

Standard and Tile-related lists:

Standard: Default

Title: all the related records are displayed as tiles and by hovering over the specific record the details of the record are displayed.

note:  Based on the user's preference the user can select any list for the default, enhanced, tile and basic list.

Dynamic related lists:

related list table and type of list
configure the number of records to display
show/hide list view action bar
define related list filters
configure actions
set component visibility
manage related lists fields( no page layout required)

4. Business process for Standard objects

Marketing: lead process(status of field )
Sales:  Sales process(stages of oppurtunity)
Service:  Support Process(status of cases)

Solution process: creating picklist values for status.

record types are created for business process.

note: Page layputs can be assigned to a record type for customization.

example: designing, construction, maintainace, inspection and emolition leads for a construction company.

Junction Relationship:(many to many)

Sales Cloud:

Marketing: Campaigns and Leads

Campaign: 
Similar to a business campaign, started to create awareness to the brand.
Linked to a leads and contacts using the campaign members.

Lead:

A contact from a company intereted in ypur company is considered as lead.
Leads can be generated using campaigns.
Leads are converted into oppurtunity once they are successfully converted.
Lead data flows to oppurtunity, account and contact once they are converted.

Adding a lead to a campaign:

Lead--> Campaign History--> add to campaign--> select a campaign or create a new campaign..
Lead to campaign: one to many relationship.
Activity history is used to log a call or send an email.


Web to Lead: 

Feature settings--> web to lead.
web to lead form is created, A html code is generated for the form, which can be used tin the company website..
If a person enters the details and submits the form a new lead is created.

Lead Assignment Rules:

Based on the criteria the leads are assigned to a specific user( by default the system administrator )
The category of a lead depends on whom the lead is assigned to and what the default leild for the profile assigned to that user.
A new lead assignment rule is created, and a new rule entry is created which includes three criteria

1. Sort order (priority order )
2. Criteria for rule entry
3. Select the user or queue to assign the lead.

note:
 If org contains record types and new lead is created manually or imported withput a record type. it will be created without a record type.
When no assignment rules apply, the recoed type of the lead owner or queue owner  is used.

Creating new status for lead conversion:

If a new status is created based on the converted criteria it will not appear in the path. It appears in the lead status option and also as an option during conversion of lead to an opputunity.
Any non converted status appears in the path.

Lead Conversion Process:

note: look into the leads description for info.

leads are archived once they are converted.
leads are archived once they are closed and not convered.
Standard to Standard field mapping is done during the lead conversion.


(important) Custom to Custom field mapping : 

Fields and realations--> Map lead fields

Lead conversion impact on campaign members:

Campaign members can be leads or conatcts.
If a lead is converted the it is part of campaign memebers as a contact.

Campaign Heirarchy:


A campaign can have a parent campaign.

example: A West Bengal radio campaign can be part of East India radio campaign which can be part of India Campaign, which can be part of Asia campaign.

Sales: Oppurtunity, Contact and Account

Opportunity:

The Probability increases as the oppurtynity progresses.
The prbality for an Opportunity for a specific stage is calculated using statistics.
The expected revenue is product of Ammount and Probaility.
Account is a parent and oppurtunity is a child.
An account may have multiple opportunities.

Relation between Sales process, Opportunity stages and Record types:

Sales process is used to include or exclude a stage, A record type is self explanatory, any chnages to the parameters of a stage like probability, percentage and forecast category can be changed only in fields and relationships but not in the Sales process or Record types.
Stages reordering cant be done in process or related fields. It can be done only in fields and relationships.

note: a process is used to define a process where as a record type is to assign the process to an object and it also provides the profile level security.

Adding aditional opportunity stages:

When a new stage is created it can be any added to any pre-existing processes.

Opportunity Record type and page layout assignments:

Different page layouts can be assigned to different record types.
Record types helps to add different page layouts based on profile, add or reorder fileds, order the related lists.

Products and Price Books:

The cost of the products in an opportunity are assigned to a pricebook.
Every opportunity is linked to a specific pricebook.
Every pricebook can have multiple products.
For an opportunity no price book can be selected, but the products are fetched from the stnadard price book.

Price Books:

If the price book is changed for an opportunity, the products included from the previous pricebook are lost.

Relationship between product, pricebook and opportunity:

relation between the product, opportunity, and pricebook can be explained with opportunity product, pricebook details.

Scheduling Products:

Consider a scenario where 100 laptops are ordered by a company but the delivery is not going to be at once.  Small quantities of the product can be dlibved i the required dates. In orer to achive this product scheduling is done.
Product scheduling settings--> enable the Scheduling.
Quantity schedule: when product is delivered
Revenue schedule: when product is paid for
Default schedule: specific product in a specific pricebook. used by default.

Adding Scheduling fields to the product page layout:

edit page layout  of produt to add all additional fields.

Adding a schedule product to an opportunity:

products can be added in an opprtunity once the scheduling is done for the product.

Forecast:

Opportunities, opportunity products etc are forcasted to based on revenue or quantity.
The commit forecast and the best case forecast can be adjusted.
The forecasts made by an user can be sared with other users.
Forecast heirarchy similar to role heirarchy is used.

Forecast Adjustments:

forecast users can adjust th eforecasts withput affecting the ammounts, close dates and forecast categories.
Manager and owner adjustments are available.
cumulative forecast rollup: based on role heirarchy the forecasts are rolled up.
Show quota is enabled to show quota next to forecast

Forecast Effect:

Product Family:

example: mouse, keyboard and headset come under accesories.
Product family can be set using object manager and can be acticated and any of the family can be set as default.

Customizable Campaign Infulence:

Campaign Influence is used to measure and report on multiple campaigns that have infulenced a single opportunity.
Inflential campaigns can be associated to opportunities automatically or mannualy.

Auto association settings: 

Used ot assoicated with opportunities automatically.
No of days and conditions are used to autoassign an opportunity to a campaign.

Model Settings:

New attribution model

Adding Campaign Influence related lists:

Service cloud user permision shpould be assigned for an user to edit page layout to add campaign influence related lists.
In service cloud the campaign influence permision is enabled.

Adding Influenced Opportunities to the Campaign:

Similar to adding the campaign influence.

Creating a ligntning app and Adjusting Utility and Navigation Items in App:

Setup-->App Manager


Contact roles and opportunities:

Every contact has a role in opportunity like sponser, Decision maker etc.
And the campaign influence is automatically updated based on the contacts added with their roles.

Big Deal Alerts:

Automatic email is sent when a given opportunity reaches the desired threhold.

Opportunity Settings, Splits and Teams:


prompt users to add products to opportunities:

advisable if its a product based company. If its a service based comapany its better to ignore this.

When users add a product to opp, insert a quantity of 1:

helpfull.

Opportunity team settings:

when enabled opoortunity split settings are visible:

Opportunity split settings:

allows sales reps to collaborate and share opportunity revenue.

Similar Opportunities:

To identify the similar opportunities in an org based on some match criteria.
Fields to be diaplayed in similar opportunites.
By bookmarking an opportunity the opportunity is added to the similar opportunity related list.

note: only available in classic not in lightning.

Lead Scoring and Opportunity Scoring:

Available in enterprise edition.
Based on the probability of closing the lead and the rating of lead the score is calculated.
Based on the probablity of cloasing an opportunity succesfull the score is calculated.
Marketing and sales employees can focus on important opportunities and leads based on rating.

Home Page Assistant:

Leads assigned 
Opportunities that are overedew
Opportunities with no activity for past 30 days.

Salesforce CRM content:

Used to share files publically with links.
Password protection can be added.

Content Packs:

A content pack is a collection of related documents or files that are stored as a group in Salesforce CRM Content.
Content packs are retired from salesforce spring 20 release.

Files:

Setup--> files--> edit-->create a public link.
Rules for sharing can be assigned in Salesforce CRM content.


Service and Support:

Cases(tickets), Accounts and contacts, Knowledge.

Enable both service cloud user and knowledge user for an user

Cases:

hopping to resolve customer issues
Lookup relations with account and contact.


Closed status:

Support settings--> enable show closed ststusesin case status field.

Support process:

to maintain the clients, the statuses are adjusted.

Same process for record type and page layout assignments.

path in cases should be added explicitly.

Parent 

Case Assignment Rules:

Similar to lead assignment rules.

Service Console:

cases and case details are at a single place.

Case Queue:

Collection of users to manage a shared workload more efficiently.

Case Escalations:

escalation rule queue is used to view pending actions and cancel.

Surveys:

Surveys can be added to web forms.
Surveys are enabled and then they are added to web forms.


Digital experiance/portal/community:

Used to create service websites and knowlege forms for customers.

Email to Case:

An email is sent to 


Case Team:

Case teams can be added to cases 

example :  a QA team, Installation team etc.

Case Closure Configuration:

In classic a close case button and close case page layout is available.
Close case quick action buttom is created in feed in lightning.

Salesforce Solution management:
Knowdledge:

Knowldge is enabled an din service setup, knowledge articles are created
Using Knowledge custom object new know knowledge articles can be written.
a defauly FAQ record type is available.
Articles can be written, published and reassigned to people.
Knowldge articles are edited as draft while published article is available to users.
Knowledge articles can be added in cases of service console using the knowldge object in page layout.
Knowledge articles are linke to a case by naming the case similar to the knowledge article.
Once a knowledge article is validated, it can be added to the case.

Omni Channel Setup:

bases on the type and the complexity of the case and the skillset of the agent.

Productivity and Collaboration:

Activity managemnt, Chatter and AppExchange.


Activity Settings:

Enable Group Tasks: a task can be assigned more than one person.
New tasks can be created for an activity and they can be associated with a contact or lead.
The due date can be set and once task is ticked off, it appears in activity history rather then the upcomming.

Task Page Layout Customizations and Recurring Tasks:

Tasks can be customized as any other object.
WhatId is an advanced level concept which has lookup relations to some objects.(imp for a developer)

Event Managemnt in Salesforce:

Event like any other object can be customized.
Event is calender driven like a meeting.


Public calenders and resources:

calender can be created for users, roles and role heirarchies.


Events are rolled up to the primay activity if its enabled.

Salesforce Chatter App:

what i folow
to me
bookmarked
company highlight
my drafts


Chatter feed is not enabled for records of all objects. 
Chatter field should be enabled for a specific object.
setup-->feed-->feed tracking.

Chatter groups:


Users can be added inside and outsode the saleforce.
posts can be made using emails

Chatter Streams:

Used to filter feed based on topics, account, etc.

Chatte topic:

Posts with #.

Slack:

Future of salesforce collaboration.
Might replace chatter.

Salesforce Mobile App:

Navigation and setup:

Navigation menu can be customized.

Mobile tools:

Branding: colors and logo can be added.
Notifications: In app and push notifications can be enabled or diabled.
Salesforce offline: aloowing caching for specifics apps to load and update the data during capricious network.
Salesforce settings:
app access: onboarding tios and feedback.
device access: import contacts.

Custom launch pad for salesforce mobile app:

lightning app builder--> new app page--> app page

Launchpad--> add items--> 20 items.

Visibility can be set and the app can be activated.

object specific quick actions can be added to the app and lightninmg page.

Global Actions:

Actions that are not specific to an object.

new actions can be created and using publisher layout th global actions can be added or removed.

Outlook and Gmail Integration:

Outlook and gmail can be Integrated with the salesforce and the data like contacts, calneder, events and emails related to records can be exchanged between the platforms.

App exchange:

App Exchange tour:

Apps, Bolt solution, flow solution,  components, data and consultant

Installing apps:

Packaging --> Installed Packages

managed( can or cannot be edited)
unmanaged( can be edited as per requiremnts)

components and dependencies can be viewed.

Data Analytics Management:

Data Management: Import and Export of data.

Data Analytics: Creating reports and dashboards.

Data Export:

Monthly and weekly export of data(not meta data) and downloaded as a zip file.
Images and other files can be included or excluded in the data export.
Exports can be Scheduled.
Include all data is used to selct alll objects.

note: If a new object is created the included all objects should be selected again to include the new object.

an email will be recieved with a link to download the zip file(with individual csv files).

Data Loader:

jre version 11 or higher is required and a path enviormntal variable is added.

login can be denied :

to troubleshoot this the security token should be used.

reset the security token--> an email is recieved with the new security token, which can be used for the login.

Security token should be saved for furture reference.

records of an object can be extracted with SOQl(Salesforce Object Query Language)  in the for of csv file.

Restoring records from recycle bin:

App Launcher --> recycle bin.

note: IsDeleted flag is present for every record, which can be used filter and export deleted records using export all option.


Buttons in Data Loader:

Insert: inserting records( record id not required)
Update: update the records ( exported and then edited before inserting)
Upsert: ( Update and Insert)
Delete: delete records.
Hard Delete: delete records permanently( goes beyond the recycle bin).

Settings:

use bulk api is used to turn o hard delete.
enable null values will wipeout the existing field data if the field is empty while updating.

Update:
A custom mapping can be created and saved using " save mapping" for future use.
custom mapping can be avoided and auto matcing can be used to map the fields if the changes are carefully made in an exported file.
Bulk updates are made as batches with 200 records per batch.
The success and error reports are saved in the local system.

Upsert:

Insertion and updating the record.
A custom external reord id can be used if required.


Data Import wizard:(only to insert and update)

50000 records can be insterted or updated at once.
only few standard objects are available.
selection of object --> field mapping.

DataLoader.io:

Developed by mulesoft.
enhanced version of Data Loader.

Data Quality can be ensured using validation rules.


Dupicate rules:

The duplicate rules are created for object susing matching rules.
Matching rules can be exact or fuzzy depending on the field.
A duplicate rule can have multiple matching rules.
duplicate records can be blocked or aloowed with alerts and reports.
The duplicate record set has the duplicate records if report is enabled.

Duplicate Lightning component:









